Good with a wrench from a young age, Roth had always had an affinity for the mechanical. Spending his formative years in the mid-sized-settlement repairing anything he could get his hands on. Starting with basic farming equipment, transport vehicles’, even getting the chance to work on some of the older mechs that could still be found on the planet. 

It was not a life without some excitement. A passion in the community shared by many in the age range of Roth was racing. The fairly harmless, but not quite legal activity was mostly just an excuse to show off whatever uncommon prints of cars anyone could get their hands on. Ranging from the vintage builds of millennia past, and the experimental prototype’s of the soon to be present.

Unsurprisingly it was not uncommon for the local authorities to show up, and break up the events. Most would get off with just a warning, the rowdy few were given the chance to cool off with a night in a cell. That is until one such event, where a fellow panicked enthusiast made the assuredly not so sober choice to flee the scene. Turning the usual misdomnner into an actual crime.  Roth at this time was hands deep in the faulty engine he had volunteered to work on. Leaving little chance for his own escape. 

The unpleasantries of local jail were eclipsed by the cruel and harsh environment found in the planet's main penal facility. What was originally a sentence of 6 months with chance of parole, slowly dragged into a long 6 years. The wardens and operators of the facility were quick to see Roth’s skill, and more than eager to exploit it for free labor. If it wasn't for the Union’s unexpected arrival to the unassuming planet, its likely he would still be there today.
